the second major group of attackers that we are watching today are not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- motivated by protests , motivated by an opinion , motivated by the laughs .
groups like anonymous have risen up over the last 12 months and have become a major player in the field of online attacks .
so those are the three main attackers : criminals who do it for the money , hacktivists like anonymous doing it for the protest , but then the last group are nation states , governments doing the attacks .
and then we look at cases like what happened in diginotar .
this is a prime example of what happens when governments attack against their own citizens .
diginotar is a certificate authority from the netherlands -- or actually , it was .
it was running into bankruptcy last fall because they were hacked into .
somebody broke in and they hacked it thoroughly .
and i asked last week in a meeting with dutch government representatives , i asked one of the leaders of the team whether he found plausible that people died because of the diginotar hack .
and his answer was yes .
so how do people die as the result of a hack like this ?
well diginotar is a c.a.
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
well you need a certificate if you have a website that has https , ssl encrypted services , services like gmail .
now we all , or a big part of us , use gmail or one of their competitors , but these services are especially popular in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign services like gmail because they know they are more trustworthy than the local services and they are encrypted over ssl connections , so the local government can &apos;t snoop on their discussions .
except they can if they hack into a foreign c.a.
and issue rogue certificates .
and this is exactly what happened with the case of diginotar .
what about arab spring and things that have been happening , for example , in egypt ?
well in egypt , the rioters looted the headquarters of the egyptian secret police in april 2011 , and when they were looting the building they found lots of papers .
among those papers , was this binder entitled &quot; finfisher . &quot;
and within that binder were notes from a company based in germany which had sold the egyptian government a set of tools for intercepting -- and in very large scale -- all the communication of the citizens of the country .
they had sold this tool for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the company headquarters are right here .
so western governments are providing totalitarian governments with tools to do this against their own citizens .
but western governments are doing it to themselves as well .
for example , in germany , just a couple of weeks ago the so-called state trojan was found , which was a trojan used by german government officials to investigate their own citizens .
if you are a suspect in a criminal case , well it &apos;s pretty obvious , your phone will be tapped .
but today , it goes beyond that .
they will tap your internet connection .
they will even use tools like state trojan to infect your computer with a trojan , which enables them to watch all your communication , to listen to your online discussions , to collect your passwords .
now when we think deeper about things like these , the obvious response from people should be that , &quot; okay , that sounds bad , but that doesn &apos;t really affect me because i &apos;m a legal citizen .
why should i worry ?
because i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and this is an argument , which doesn &apos;t make sense .
privacy is implied .
privacy is not up for discussion .
this is not a question between privacy against security .
it &apos;s a question of freedom against control .
and while we might trust our governments right now , right here in 2011 , any right we give away will be given away for good .
and do we trust , do we blindly trust , any future government , a government we might have 50 years from now ?
and these are the questions that we have to worry about for the next 50 years .
this may sound strange , but i &apos;m a big fan of the concrete block .
the first concrete blocks were manufactured in 1868 with a very simple idea : modules made of cement of a fixed measurement that fit together .
very quickly concrete blocks became the most-used construction unit in the world .
they enabled us to to build things that were larger than us , buildings , bridges , one brick at a time .
essentially concrete blocks had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later in 1947 , lego came up with this .
it was called the automatic binding brick .
and in a few short years , lego bricks took place in every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion bricks have been produced -- or 75 bricks for every person on the planet .
you don &apos;t have to be an engineer to make beautiful houses , beautiful bridges , beautiful buildings .
lego made it accessible .
lego has essentially taken the concrete block , the building block of the world , and made it into the building block of our imagination .
meanwhile the exact same year , at bell labs the next revolution was about to be announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a small plastic unit that would take us from a world of static bricks piled on top of each other to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows you to build much larger , more complex circuits , one brick at a time .
but there &apos;s a main difference : the transistor was only for experts .
i personally don &apos;t accept this , that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , so i decided to change that .
eight years ago when i was at the media lab , i started exploring this idea of how to put the power of engineers in the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago i started developing littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules with each one specific function .
they &apos;re pre-engineered to be light , sound , motors and sensors .
and the best part about it is they snap together with magnets .
so you can &apos;t put them the wrong way .
the bricks are color-coded .
green is output , blue is power , pink is input and orange is wire .
so all you need to do is snap a blue to a green and very quickly you can start making larger circuits .
you put a blue to a green , you can make light .
you can put a knob in between and now you &apos;ve made a little dimmer .
switch out the knob for a pulse module , which is here , and now you &apos;ve made a little blinker .
add this buzzer for some extra punch and you &apos;ve created a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
so beyond simple play , littlebits are actually pretty powerful .
instead of having to program , to wire , to solder , littlebits allow you to program using very simple intuitive gestures .
so to make this blink faster or slower , you would just turn this knob and basically make it pulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
we want to make every single interaction in the world into a ready-to-use brick .
lights , sounds , solar panels , motors -- everything should be accessible .
we &apos;ve been giving littlebits to kids and seeing them play with them .
and it &apos;s been an incredible experience .
the nicest thing is how they start to understand the electronics around them from everyday that they don &apos;t learn at schools .
for example , how a nightlight works , or why an elevator door stays open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we &apos;ve also been taking littlebits to design schools .
so for example , we &apos;ve had designers with no experience with electronics whatsoever start to play with littlebits as a material .
here you see , with felt and paper water bottles , we have geordie making ...
a few weeks ago we took littlebits to risd and gave them to some designers with no experience in engineering whatsoever -- just cardboard , wood and paper -- and told them &quot; make something . &quot;
here &apos;s an example of a project they made , a motion-activated confetti canon ball .
but wait , this is actually my favorite project .
it &apos;s a lobster made of playdough that &apos;s afraid of the dark .
to these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics became just another material .
and we want to make this material accessible to everyone .
so littlebits is open-source .
you can go on the website , download all the design files , make them yourself .
we want to encourage a world of creators , of inventors , of contributors , because this world that we live in , this interactive world , is ours .
so go ahead and start inventing .
thank you .
